RPA - What it is and how it works.
There are many different definitions of robotic process automation out there, but most include the
words "software", "manual activity" and "repetitive tasks".
And that is it:
RPA is simply computer coded software that automates manual activities by performing repetitive
rule-based tasks.
And if that sounds confusing to you right now; don't worry - we'll soon see a demo.
The RPA software can easily be programmed to do basic tasks across applications just us human workers do.
The software can be taught - using recorders and easy programming language -, a workflow or process with
multiple steps and applications and reduce the burden of repetitive simple tasks on employees.
The higher volume and more mundane a task is, the better it's suited for robotic process automation. And just like industrial robots
transformed the factory floor,
RPA bots are transforming, and will continue to transform, office tasks.
How does it work?
Well, RPA replicates human interactions on a computer using proven underlying technology like image recognition,
text recognition, screen positioning, XML fragments and attributes and so on;
and this technology is interacting with various windows buttons, folders, drop down-lists and so on,
in the graphical user interface (GUI) of a computer. The graphical user interface of the computer is the
user interface layer that we humans also mostly use,
and this is one of the advantages of RPA, as it means the robot is able to automate work without compromising
the underlying IT infrastructure.
The robot can handle tasks like button clicks, cut/paste text, merging documents, do calculations, send
emails, etc. like humans.
It also reads applications such as Microsoft Word, Excel or Outlook; Notepad, customer relationship
management systems (CRMs) such as Sales Force, enterprise resource management systems (ERPs) such as SAP and so on,
which makes it a very powerful tool.
The robot can be implemented at the desktop or in a virtual environment.
So now that you have a firm understanding of what RPA is and how it works, let us have a look at
a demo; that will clear things up.
What you will see is an actual robot process automation and a robot performing a process on a desktop.
The process consists of 1) Pulling a PDF attachment from an e-mail inbox. 2) Transforming the data from
PDF to a row in a master Excel document that is saved on the machine.
3) The robot logs into a web system and enters the data from the Excel sheet in the web system to generate
an invoice, and 4) finally designated users are notified that the process is complete by email.
The demo you will see is made by Deloitte, and the RPA software used in this demo as Automation Anywhere.
You might want to see the video twice, as the robot is working very fast. Pay especially attention to
the fact that the robot works in the graphical user interface layer and that it works perfectly fine
in multiple applications and across those applications.
In an RPA solution, robots are capable of mimicking most user actions in the graphical user interface layer,
stretching from very manual and simple activities to more judgment-based and complex activities.
From the demo,
you already saw some of the capabilities of RPA like opening mail and extracting attachments, logging
into and navigating applications, copying and pasting data, filling in forms and extracting structured
data from documents.
Other capabilities of RPA solutions are creating, moving and deleting files and folders;
reading and writing to different databases,
following simple decisions and rules, collecting statistics - for example from social media -, and connecting
to APIs. Robots are also capable of making calculations and scraping data from the web.
Most RPA solutions are also capable of working in several systems, applications and platforms.
In the demo, you saw the robot work in desktop applications like Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Outlook,
and you saw the robot work in a web application that was available through a browser.
RPA solutions are usually capable of working in most enterprise resource planning systems, like SAP or
Microsoft Dynamics Navision,
- to mention a couple. They can be integrated with most databases, work with text-based file
formats - like CSV, JSON or XML files -, work with mainframe green screens,
obviously work with Microsoft Word, and work with remote desktop terminals like Citrix.
The ability to work across different systems, applications and platforms is one of the main advantages
of the RPA technology.
We will address the pros and cons of RPA technology in a later lesson.